Threading notes

what is Threading ?

A thread represent separate path to execute group of statements, these are executed by python virtual machine one by
one. This execution is called a Thread, because PVM uses a thread to execute statements one by one.


what is single Tasking ?

In single tasking only one task is given to the processor at a time, it takes only fraction of second. Actually
millions of instructions done per second.This means we are wasting a lot of time by processor time and
microprocessor has to sit idle.This is draw back, But in some cases single tasking finishes tasks one by one
without ant time gap this would be preferable.


what is multitasking ?

To use the processor time we have to assign several tasks at a time. This is called multitasking.we have 4 tasks
load them into memory .The memory is divided into 4 parts
The 1/4 th of second is called time slice.

what is process ?
process represents group of statement which are executed by PVM using main thread.we take a running program as an
example.Each process will have its own memory.A programmer counter that keeps track of instruction eing executed
The data of one process is isolated from another process.

Thread also represents a group of statements within a program . Thread helps to turns one statement by main thread.

what is concurrent programming ?

In python ,it is possible to create multiple process and set them to work simultaneously. In same way multiple threads
and excute them work in different parts of program simultaneously. executing the tasks or program simultaneously.

GIL - Global interpreter Lock

when morethan one thread is running the data of one thread is available to another thread.In such cases there is a
possibility of data manipulations which will leads to errors.
GIL does not allows to run more than one  thread at a time. it impose restrictions to run multiple.

Uses of threads ?

Threads are useful to run multiple threads more than one task at a time is called concurrent programming.

Threads are mainly used in server side programs to serve the need of multiple clients on server or internet at a time.

Threads are useful in games and animation



